on this episode of manufacturers say
we're gonna show one way or the other
if we've already reached the point where
a gamer or video editor simply won't be
able to tell the difference between a
slow ssd and a fast one the title of
this video does have some truth in it
when we went from hard drives to ssds
there was a period where the single most
noticeable upgrade you could make to an
aging system was a storage upgrade but
like cpus ram or anything else there is
a point of seriously diminishing returns
and honestly i take issue with
manufacturers telling consumers that
they need to upgrade their system
because
our new product does
4 000 megabytes per second instead of 3
000.
whoa what was that
editor can you back that thing up a
second
yeah yeah that one right there
zoom in on that wow if you look really
closely you can see
our sponsor instantly see your current
and past network activity detect malware
and block badly behaving apps on your pc
or android device with glassware use
offer code linus to get 25 off at the
link below
both manufacturers and my fellow media
alike have been found suggesting that
gamers or content creators like video
editors might benefit in some way from
the super fast pcie gen 4 ssds that are
making their way onto the market and
guys i love fast computers as much as
the next person
but
when it comes to this i feel a little
bit like the kid who finally calls out
that the emperor's new clothes are a lie
and he's just naked because it has been
a long time since an ssd upgrade has
wowed me that is aside from blazing fast
benchmark numbers
so to see if i'm the only one we've
built up a fun little side-by-side by
side test here these three systems are
nearly identical they've all got ryzen 9
3900x processors rtx 2070 graphics cards
and 32 gigs of ddr4 memory but
one of them has a bog standard sata ssd
another has a last generation nvme ssd
that does around 1500 megabytes a second
and finally we've got a pcie gen 4 ssd
tearing up our lanes at a blistering
4950 megabytes a second it should be
noted that that last one did need a
motherboard upgrade to give us pcie 4
compatibility
but we've adjusted the performance
parameters to ensure that it has no
other advantage
so let's start then by asking our test
subjects where they are expecting to
notice the difference between the
systems the only difference i would
expect is in loading the games initially
or like a map changing maps
but in actual gameplay
i really don't expect anything
in adobe premiere i really think the
bottleneck will actually be the software
i don't think i'll be able to tell the
difference in games or in most
applications but in something that's
very uh heavy in like big files maybe
like video editing or like transferring
you might be able to feel it a little
bit more my expectation with game
loading time is that unless i'm running
the game side by side the loading time
difference is going to be so small that
i'd have a hard time remembering which
one is which really from 600 megabytes a
second to nine times that speed we'll
see
i'll probably be able to tell the
difference in load up times
and just snapping to the system start
with this one system number one
the point of this is just to find out
well you know is it obvious if we wanted
to know you know which one's faster we
would use benchmarks
yeah that's fast because there's often
hang-ups there
for the loading oh wow i haven't played
this game in a little bit though 14 15
16 seconds
16 seconds for mirage now that's
something we're not allowing people to
do is just copy files from folder to
folder on the drive because
yeah there'll be a big difference there
but is that really representative of
day-to-day use or is gaming and video
editing it's not bad it's better than
playing off the network for sure i can't
really imagine this getting all that
much faster felt's noticeably quicker
than i expect and i expect pretty fast
so okay good
system number two
i really think that counting is kind of
akin to benchmarking and so nine three
eleven
six one okay there's a bit slower
yeah this is not
as responsive the other time i was able
to drag it it was all immediate it
seemed like there was a bit of a delay
when it was loading
stop
counting you have to do it by feel
yeah i'm not going to be able to tell
the difference between them unless my my
counting was actually pretty consistent
but you won't know if your counting was
consistent no i'm just going to assume
and then i'm going to make my guesses
based on that counting and then i'll
know whether or not it was consistent
based on the results and whether or not
i was correct right
okay yeah i actually don't find this
that much worse it felt like it took a
little bit longer to get going
are we at a point of diminishing returns
oh
absolutely come on that's the question
we're asking system two is definitely
overall slower uh i was surprised to
find that in every game across the board
it took just another second another two
seconds to load it's not a huge deal in
the grand scheme of things but it's
definitely noticeable when you're
looking for the details okay
system three system three let's go well
this one also loaded pretty quick
but i have to check the first one again
very very choppy just trying to
play this at full res
slower slower
there's a slowest one
okay let's see
i'm not high
i could be high okay so i just loaded up
doom
and that
was
pretty slow too
you know there's all the marketing yeah
around
two and three and four yeah and it's
like well hold on a second where is that
point of diminishing returns right i
suspect we're past it pc3 is definitely
slower than the other two that last 25
in doom took a lot longer than it did on
the other stations in premiere
i saw the loading bar on this one i
don't even remember seeing the loading
bars on the other ones system 3 felt
kind of like a mixed bag
it was snappy in some places but it felt
a little less responsive than others
that being said at some points it was
like kind of the fastest system but
other things that loaded the slowest so
i'm kind of confused about this one the
most i was pretty sure about the first
two but the third one's throwing me for
a bit of a loop system number three
i noticed was a little bit slower it got
hung up in
doom at the 75 percent loading mark a
little bit longer than the other systems
but once uh premiere was in there and i
hit full resin play it just died it was
really stuttery wait no you can't
benchmark them head to head you can go
back
jeez
you didn't tell me that's not a drag
race
i mean it is it's no it can't uh it's a
blind taste test it is not a drag race
they are very different concepts
very different
oh no i'm high
i take back everything i said
you gotta declare it okay call it call
your shot i think this is sata
nvme gen four
are you ready to declare your answers i
think so okay i can say pretty
definitively that the second one is sata
okay uh it felt across the board the
slowest okay i have a harder time
telling between these two
um
this one felt slower than this one this
one felt consistently the fastest so my
immediate guess would be that this is
the gen 4 and that's the nvme um
[Music]
but maybe it's reversed and maybe gen 4
is just so new that it's not consistent
for sure that's the sata
i'm pretty sure
gen 3 is number two
gen 4 is number one okay
this one is the fastest
but only because
lttstore.com that's what makes it fat
don't worry i'm just kidding i'll tell
you the real answers yeah we're gonna
have sticker packs soon you know
lttstore.com anyway
okay so
i i wanna know the answer too so i'm
just gonna hang around i'm not gonna i'm
not gonna try
okay you said this one was nvme no sata
sata
that's wrong that's nvme no
um you said this one was and amy
that's gen four
that's
fine whatever i'm crazy that is gen 3
nvme
okay yeah
okay yeah you're right you're one for
one that is pcie gen 4 no it's not
that's not possible and that's satan
really
this
was pcie gen 4. that was gen 4. okay
okay
this
was pcie gen 3. really
what
oh my god
are you not too i'm not surprised that i
was wrong honestly
am i disappointed that i was wrong yes
so when i used the first system i had no
point of reference and so maybe it felt
so fast and then i started comparing the
other ones and i could kind of feel the
the pause longer so i i'm yeah i don't
know i'm speechless do you think you'd
have any hope of telling the difference
between them if you weren't sitting in
front of all three of them at once not
even a little bit of a chance not even
the slightest chance at all what's
interesting to me though is that to a
man
everyone who took the test picked the
sata system as the fastest one
so what that indicates to me then
is that
the differences that we perceive once
you're running an ssd are pretty much
going to come down to psychological ones
like maybe just from looking at this one
first that makes a bigger difference we
actually had a conclusion written up for
this by colin that goes so here you have
it the results show that there is a
noticeable difference between sata and
nvme drives which is expected but blah
blah blah blah blah i actually didn't
necessarily think that that was going to
be the case i really wish i had been
able to stay blind so that i could have
taken the challenge myself but i was not
expecting anyone to be able to tell the
difference
now with that said
that's not to say that there's no reason
to consider a high quality ssd there's
higher quality flash which will be rated
for more programming race cycles giving
it better longevity there's firmware and
controller quality which can affect the
behavior of the drive when it's
near max capacity and things like that
there's dram cache which is absolutely
necessary a dram-less ssd will actually
perform like a hard drive in many
situations and then of course there is
applications beyond just your typical
gaming or video editing and that's where
i think a lot of the fud comes in is
convincing people that for gaming or for
simple video editing that you need this
high performance storage because the
cold hard truth is that even 8k red
footage it maxes out at 280 megabytes a
second that is comfortably
well within the realm of what sata can
handle speaking of limits there's no
limit to how bad my segways can get
maingear's vector gaming laptop is
available at 25 micro central locations
as well as on amazon it's a thousand
dollars at micro center and 1199.99
on their amazon listing it features an
intel core i7 9750h at 2.6 gigahertz
base a geforce gtx 1660 ti 6 gig card 16
gigs of ddr4 2666 memory a 512 gig nvme
solid state drive
a 15.6 inch 144 hertz display now that's
something that really will make a
difference to your gaming and you can
check out it and other micro center
specials at the links in the video
description so thanks for watching guys
if you enjoyed this kind of you know
side by side taste test challenge maybe
check out uh oh we did a video recently
checking out uh key switches either that
or it's coming soon
so make sure you're subscribed or go
look for it one way or another